he's table for my wife yes and children
let's go one table I do not want to
up Cornish go go up wakey-wakey tear
down myself
yeah
how I make hey good Hollywood you think
good good yes
Megan mmm Jack what do you think then
and you like the brown meat as well yeah
Matilda what do you think I'm Anthony
nice does he taste the way you thought
you're gonna taste Oh Oh see what -
turkey back in the garden again just
what about pigs in the garbage yeah
thick little picky look would you think
that Matilda's idea with chickens pigs
is probably more encouraging you happy
with pigs yes let me said yes the pigs
as fantastic news
I'm gonna get back to the kitchen give
me yes we'll take some of your teacher
Cuba kiss mmm wait see later I'm going
back to work back in look at you right
listen clean plates yes or no dessert
yes hopefully chocolate tart see later
now this man Hugh Foley with his
thoughts gonna attempt to beat me with
his chocolate chestnut cake no chance
you reckon
and what you doing exactly I'm gonna do
a nice gooey chocolate and chestnut cake
that should be quite soft and moosie in
the middle like a lot of things you can
you can literally eat it straight out of
the oven as a kind of hot chocolate
pudding yeah good and you won't even
manage to slice it you just have to
scoop it out our nice good luck good
luck
so I'm doing a very simple
straightforward chocolate tart no frills
no schools no creme fraiche no vanilla
chocolate tart with roasted hazelnuts
we're gonna make the most amazing pastry
roll it out line it in this flan ring
put the cream of milk on to boil add
that to my little chocolate buttons
there's a very well-known Elizabeth
David chocolate cake that uses ground
almonds instead of flour and keeps it
lovely and moist and quite fudgy in the
middle this is really based on that
except I'm just using chestnuts
cooked in a little cream and milk mash
instead of the ground almonds but really
it's a tribute to her recipe it's lovely
at Christmas because it's got the
chestnuts in milk cream up the ball
hazelnut praline on top of the chocolate
buttons and then quite simply cream and
milk onto the chocolate and stir away
now the thickening agent of this
particular tart are whole eggs and what
the egg does is as the cream and the
chocolate and the milk cook of course
the eggs help to set it lightly whisk up
the eggs and fold that in the chocolate
now I'm just gonna lightly toast my nuts
now Hugh you're highly competitive
aren't you even though you're living in
the countryside you still have that
chef's competitive streak in you don't
you yeah yeah I like to win Gordon whoa
no it's all right you thought it it all
gone horribly wrong for me there didn't
you
I was hoping it had you no thank you
yeah I'd get fired from your kitchen so
far when I look at my depart look at the
Hat look oh my god that mad she bring
you out in a sweat oh that I'd be
getting clip round the head if this was
what I probably am about to be clipped
by then won't you find from the River
Cafe for being a messy puppy yes yeah in
a word yes pitting hair
there we go we're baking the tart blind
that means we're going to line this ring
with a pastry and then bake that off
first so that's an added insurance
policy that a the pastry stays nice and
crisp and be all we have to do that it
just cooked the chocolate filling
so baking blind simply means cooking it
twice you miss not being a professional
chef running a restaurant full time I
don't miss it at all cuz I was quite I
was quite a bad professional chef really
I just ain't I have been like Jamie haha
I haven't got the discipline what what I
do now I enjoy very much you know yep
what we do in Dorset isn't really a
restaurant it's more informal than that
it's about telling people where the food
comes from I have a great kitchen team
but it's sort of more of a cookery
school than a restaurant uh-huh and um
did you have long straggly hair at the
River Cafe I've always had long straggly
hair how many times need you wash it I
think I'm due for about once a month
seasonal seasonal you have to wear a
hairnet I could beat you for my
pre-christmas wash any day now you're
distracting me and you're making me over
whip the egg whites
the thing about folding in egg whites
has never fold more than you need to but
you do have to get it properly
incorporated which means going deep to
the bottom of the bowl and just lifting
the mix and that's it
in it goes that just goes in there for
25 minutes the really important not to
overcook it so that you don't want it to
dry out so out nuts sprinkle the nut to
the bottom chocolate in does it very
good we don't fill the tart right for
the very top here two-thirds of the way
in open the oven door
and then get the rest of your mixture
and top up the tart so that's so you
don't have to carry a really full tart
elegant exactly so it gets really nice
and full
that's only a very useful tip for chefs
you've been drinking too much on
Christmas Day
absolutely it's drop the cloth in
it I've already messed up my pudding
are you okay yeah I just went in to have
a little look and I drop the cloth you
see that's why I got fired things like
that I've dropped a cloth in the middle
of my cake I hope that's a clean one now
it's all down to Sharon Osbourne
you know that and yeah I've got for the
first time in the f-word series a proper
chef in my kitchen so there's any time
now that I really want to win it's
today yes that's very kind of
you to describe me as a chef I'm not
good losing ah ah ah
well you better be I got I've now in
that state of mind where I actually
really want to win serious yeah mines in
the oven now it's got to go in there and
90 degrees for an hour and 10 to an hour
and 15 minutes so it cooks nice and
slowly we can't afford to turn up any
higher than 90 95 degrees otherwise it
splits and separates and I'm damned if
I'm gonna lose this challenge there's a
coulis and what about this one with a
hazelnut I would never eat that that is
great no not born I did love you
I do not oh my god